I hold a 50% extension appointment within the Department of Economics at Iowa State University, and was appointed to the Iowa Institute for Cooperatives Economics Professorship in 2013.  My charge in this role is to develop a nationally recognized extension program in the economics of agricultural cooperatives. As part of that effort, and with support of the Iowa Institute for Cooperatives (IIC), I co-direct professional development programs for Iowa’s cooperative board members and executives. The IIC’s Director Certification Program – a program that has existed for over 30 years – is one way in which I assist in meeting the needs of cooperatives in the state of Iowa.  Other activities include participating in IIC’s educational workshops throughout the year, conducting economic-based analyses on cooperatives that can be shared with stakeholders, and interacting with cooperatives in Iowa to identify and address emerging issues of concern to them.

I am fortunate and thankful to have the support of the Iowa Institute for Cooperatives, local cooperatives in Iowa, and regional cooperatives in the Midwest as I develop extension programming intended to positively impact them and their long term success.  They continue to be strategic partners in my extension endeavors as well as in teaching and research.
                
It is my hope that cooperatives and anyone interested in engaging with them on some level or learning more about them will utilize this website as a resource.  Many of my extension presentations and the developed tools and educational material can be found here, along with links to other resources for cooperatives.
                