I was raised on a family farm in the Wayne Township of Jones County, Iowa. My family still farms there.  Officially my address was Scotch Grove but I attended school in Monticello. If you’re not familiar with Monticello, it is home to The Great Jones County Fair, a legend. “The Grove” – both a reference to the town and the local watering hole – barely sustained a post office and grocery at that time, much less a school.  It, too, is a legend. During my years on the farm we produced corn, soybeans, and hogs.  We had cattle until the mid-1980s but I cannot recall much of that other than claiming for my own “#88” and being very sad as I watched her load into the trailer headed for the auction barn.  The hog operation was expanded over time to include two state-of-the-art (at that time) farrow-to-finish confinement buildings in addition to the open lots and pasture systems.   

I cannot claim to have much hands-on experience with crop production, livestock or hogs but you can learn a lot about agriculture just being around it all:  at the dinner table, helping Mom fix lunch for the guys and deliver it to the fields, and grinding feed with Dad.  For me, memories of life on the farm include walking beans, husking sweet corn, 4-H horse shows, tooling around the gravel roads by horseback or bike, watching as the “candy truck” unloaded rejected candy bars into the hog lot (yes, really), being assigned caretaker of the litter runts, and Tractor Day at school.  From my perspective, there is no better way to grow up than on a farm…but I am biased.

After high school I attended Kirkwood Community College (1992-1994) and then Coe College (1994-1996), both in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.  Kirkwood is where I took my first course in economics, and I remember well that “light bulb” moment. Economics made sense of things in a way appealing to me, and I decided it was worth pursuing.  After two years at Coe, my econ professors thought I should go to graduate school. Instead, I accepted a grain merchandising position with ADM.  It was a decision that would serve me well.  Working for ADM taught me about basis, hedging, commodity markets, and processors’ role in the production chain.  It also paved the way for a move to the securities side of the market, where I stayed for 3 years. Eventually I realized that I wanted to be back on the agricultural side of things.

I must admit, the choice to enter graduate school was made about one day after receiving a layoff notice and measly severance package option from a large securities firm I was working for at the time.  It was just the push back to school that I needed.  I spent two years at the University of Central Florida and then moved to Raleigh, NC to enter the Economics Graduate Program at North Carolina State University. It was there that I had the fantastic fortune to be Dr. Wally Thurman’s research assistant.  My first job out of graduate school was at the place I had not so secretly hoped to land, but did not think it would happen.  Being on faculty in the Department of Economics at Iowa State University was my pipe dream! I am fortunate to be surrounded by nationally-renowned colleagues, an impressive web of extension, outreach, and research programs, and in a locale at the forefront of agriculture.  
                
I am often asked whether the time between undergrad and grad school is a choice I would make again.  Without hesitation, yes.  I had fun, moved a lot, and took risks.  The time between gave me an opportunity to realize what I liked and, more importantly, what I did not want to do forever.  The challenge returning to school is not, in my opinion, due to the loss of study skills - I think that and time maangement skills actually improve. The real challenge is reacclimating to a student's income once you have become accustomed to something more.  

Aside from the serious business of research, teaching, and extension, my affinity for adventure remains…albeit toned down a bit from younger years.  My summers are busied with cycling, the occasional “running” event (my pace is more like a jog), and weekend concerts.
